# Deployment packages

You can create several deployment packages. Every deployment package is a visual studio solution which contains the elements which you need to deploy the user's data warehouse. There is a typical deployment package description:

Name: The name of deployment package and the name of generated the visual studio solution. Create DACPAC: If checked, the DACPAC file containing WDH structure will be generated Deploy DACPAC: If checked, the DACPAC file will be deployed to the database defined below. Server, DB Name, Integrated security, Login and Password: the connection attributes of SQL Server the DACPAC file should be deployed to. Allow data loss, Drop objects not in source, Backup DB before changes, Block when drift detected, Deploy in single user mode and Allow incompatible platform: the DACPAC deployment options. See SQLDEPLOY.EXE options for more information. Create Pothe documentationrPivot: if checked, the Excel file containing Pothe documentationrPivot/Pothe documentationrBI data model will be created. This Pothe documentationrPivot file can be imported into Pothe documentationrBI Next options are common for multidimensional and tabular OLAP databases Create XMLA file: if checked, the XMLA file containing OLAP database definition will be created Server, DB Name, Login, Password: Connection attributes of OLAP Server where the OLAP database will work. You can add there a dummy information but then you should edit the XMLA file and replace the dummy data with the properly server credentials. Process cube in workflow package: if checked, the cube processing task will be added to workflow package Create cube during deployment: if checked, the OLAP cube will be created using OLAP server connection attributes. SSIS Packages: SSIS packages which will be generated during deployment. To invert the selection please click on the header of “Deploy” – column in the package list. SSIS config type: You can select betthe documentationen the environment variable and config file to configure the connection to the database containing \[CFG].\[SSIS\_Configuration] table. This table contains the configurations of all SSIS packages. SSIS Config env.var./SSIS config file path: Name of environment variable or path to the config file which will be created. Deploy SSIS\_Configuration: if checked, the content of \[CFG].\[SSIS\_Configuration] table will be recreated. Use project reference: if selected, the workflow package will access other SSIS packages using project reference, otherwise –using file reference.
