---
icon: markdown
noIndex: true
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# Northwind Data Warehouse

## Step by step SQL Server Northwind Project

### Create your first Datawarehouse with AnalyticsCreator&#x20;

AnalyticsCreator offers a variety of demos that are pre-configured for testing within your environment. This section outlines the necessary modifications to transition from the Northwind OLTP database to the DWH Northwind model.\
\
Upon completing this section, the demo will be ready to run locally on the machine.

From the **File** menu, select the **Load From Cloud** button.

{% embed url="https://www.analyticscreator.com/hs-fs/hubfs/Canva%20images/Canva%20Design%20DAGXIcK7HZ0.png?height=1080&name=Canva+Design+DAGXIcK7HZ0.png&width=1920" %}

Next, choose **NW\_Demo.**

By default, the repository name is **NW\_Demo**. Provide a name for the new repository.

Please note that this repository will **only contain the metadata of the database**. After naming the repository, click **OK**.

AnalyticsCreator will then automatically generate all the necessary project parameters.

{% embed url="https://www.analyticscreator.com/hubfs/Creating%20a%20New%20Northwind%20Project.mp4" %}

Now, a DWH project has been generated by AnalyticsCreator, which includes **five layers**, as demonstrated in the lineage view below:

1. **Sources**\
   The source layer contains the raw, untransformed data from the original data sources. This is the first stage where data is ingested into the system.
2. **Staging layer**\
   In this layer, data from the source is temporarily stored and cleaned. It is prepared for transformation and further processing but has not yet been structured for business analysis.
3. **Persisted staging layer**\
   This is a more permanent storage of the cleaned and transformed data from the staging layer. It serves as a reliable, historical backup of the staging data before moving into the core layer.
4. **Core layer**\
   The Core layer holds the main data model of the system, typically containing business-related data structured for easier querying and analysis. It integrates multiple sources of information into a unified format.
5. **Datamart layer**\
   The Datamart layer is where data is organized and optimized for reporting and analysis. It focuses on specific business areas or subjects, providing a structured, summarized view of the data for decision-making.

* [ ] <mark style="background-color:orange;">**Change this image**</mark>

{% embed url="https://www.analyticscreator.com/hs-fs/hubfs/Canva%20images/Canva%20Design%20DAGXIN_VWnQ.png?height=1620&name=Canva+Design+DAGXIN_VWnQ.png&width=2880" %}
Lineage View of NorthWind Data Warehouse
{% endembed %}

The journey begins with the **Sources** layer.

In this case, we are using the Northwind database. If the Northwind database is not already available in your environment, follow the steps below to create it. If the database already exists, you can skip this step.

**Step 1: Verify if the Northwind Database Exists**\
Check your SQL Server to see if the Northwind database is already present. If it is, you can skip the following steps.\
\
**Step 2: Create the Northwind Database (if not already present)**\
If the Northwind database is not already present in your environment, you can create it by executing the following SQL script in your SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS).\
You can download the script directly from the following URL or run it using the script provided below:\
[Download the Northwind creation script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/sql-server-samples/refs/heads/master/samples/databases/northwind-pubs/instnwnd%20\(Azure%20SQL%20Database\).sql)\
Alternatively, you can copy all the contents from the [URL above](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/sql-server-samples/refs/heads/master/samples/databases/northwind-pubs/instnwnd%20\(Azure%20SQL%20Database\).sql) and paste them into a new query in SSMS. Once pasted, run the query to create the Northwind database and populate it with the necessary tables.

**Step 3: Verify the Database**\
Once the script has been executed, verify that the Northwind database has been created and contains the necessary tables. You can do this by running the following query in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS):

```sql
USE Northwind;
GO
SELECT *
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES
WHERE TABLE_SCHEMA = 'dbo'
AND TABLE_TYPE = 'BASE TABLE';
```

\
\
This will list all the tables in the Northwind database. Ensure the essential tables (such as Customers, Orders, Products, etc.) are present.

Once confirmed, you can proceed with the next steps to configure the AnalyticsCreator Connector with your Northwind database.

Keep in mind that AnalyticsCreator uses only native [Microsoft Connectors](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/ado/guide/appendixes/appendix-a-providers?view=sql-server-ver15), and we do not store any personal information.

**Step 3: Change Database Connector**&#x20;

Navigate to Sources > Connectors.

{% embed url="https://www.analyticscreator.com/hs-fs/hubfs/Canva%20images/AC%20Sources.png?height=1620&name=AC+Sources.png&width=2880" %}

You will notice that a connector is already configured. For security purposes, the connection string is encrypted. To edit or add a new connection string, go to Options > Encrypted Strings > Add. Paste your connection string as demonstrated in the video below.

{% embed url="https://www.analyticscreator.com/hubfs/My%20first%20Deploy.mp4" %}

After adding the new connection string, it's time to test your connection. Go to Sources > Connectors and press the Test button to verify your connection.

**Step 4: Create a new Deployment**

In this step, you'll configure and deploy your project to the desired destination. **Please note that only the metadata will be deploye**&#x64;**; there will be no data movement or copy during this process.**\
\
Follow the instructions below to create and set up a new **deployment**.

1. Navigate to **Deployments** in the menu and create a new deployment.&#x20;
2. Assign a name to your deployment.&#x20;
3. Configure the connection for the **Destination**.&#x20;
4. Set the project path where the deployment will be saved.&#x20;
5. Select the packages you want to generate.&#x20;
6. Review the connection variables and click **Deploy** to initiate the process. Finally, click Deploy to complete the deployment.
7. Finally, click **Deploy** to complete the deployment.
