launching-analyticscreator/editor/analyticscreator-desktop-overview.md, before:

---
description: >-
  The AnalyticsCreator interface provides a straightforward layout to help you
  navigate and configure your Data Ware projects efficiently. Below is an
  overview of its main components for quick reference
noIndex: true
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# AnalyticsCreator Desktop Overview

### With AnalyticsCreator Desktop users can:

#### <mark style="background-color:orange;">### ASK Richard and AC Team for suggestions ###</mark>

1. Add connections to data sources and import metadata to AnalyticsCreator
2. Describe data assets (tables, columns, etc.)
3. Complement data model in the repository with manual primary/unique keys and relationships
4. Add manual columns and tables
5. Add metrics
6. Create automatically Data Historization
7. Create Fact Tables
8. Create Dimensions

#### <mark style="background-color:orange;">### Create a nerw desing in canvas ###</mark>

{% embed url="https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hub/7543628/hubfs/image-png-2.png?height=952&name=image-png-2.png&width=1903" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-9: gustavoleo - break for lunch - stopped in Predefined transformations

launching-analyticscreator/editor/analyticscreator-desktop-overview.md, after:

---
description: >-
  The AnalyticsCreator interface provides a straightforward layout to help you
  navigate and configure your Data Ware projects efficiently. Below is an
  overview of its main components for quick reference
noIndex: true
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# AnalyticsCreator Desktop Overview

### With AnalyticsCreator Desktop users can:

1. **Data Warehouse Creation**\
   Automatically generate and structure your data warehouse, including fact tables and dimensions.
2. **Connectors**\
   Add connections to various data sources and import metadata seamlessly.
3. **Layer Management**\
   Define and manage layers such as staging, persisted staging, core, and datamart layers.
4. **Package Generation**\
   Generate integration packages for SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) and ADF (Azure Data Factory).
5. **Indexes and Partitions**\
   Automatically configure indexes and partitions for optimized performance.
6. **Roles and Security**\
   Manage roles and permissions to ensure secure access to your data.
7. **Galaxies and Hierarchies**\
   Organize data across galaxies and define hierarchies for better data representation.
8. **Customizations**\
   Configure parameters, macros, scripts, and object-specific scripts for tailored solutions.
9. **Filters and Predefined Transformations**\
   Apply advanced filters and transformations for data preparation and enrichment.
10. **Snapshots and Versioning**\
    Create snapshots to track and manage changes in your data warehouse.
11. **Deployments**\
    Deploy your projects with flexible configurations, supporting on-premises and cloud solutions.
12. **Groups and Models**\
    Organize objects into groups and manage models for streamlined workflows.
13. **Data Historization**\
    Automate the process of creating historical data models for auditing and analysis.

This list consolidates the core features while emphasizing the flexibility and power of AnalyticsCreator in building comprehensive data warehouse solutions.
